---
layout: post
title: Introduction PDF Generator
categories: [pdf-generator]
tags: [nest.js,node,handlebars,puppeteer]
---

# Welcome to my advanced Node journey
Many asked me what is the big deal of a modern PDF generator; they exist for a long time. PDF generation from documents is a commodity. The functionality is normally provided by established vendor's libraries. Many company use these libraries to compose PDF at a more <em>native</em> level using PDF composition API from Adobe. This approach works for a long time, but normally is plagued by the less flexibity when the source data changes unexpectedly. My last company has a legacy PDF generator system suffers from this critical deficiency not being able to keep up with changes fast enough.

### A Trendy Approach:
One of the latest of PDF generation uses a templating engine Handlebars and Puppeteer on Node and Nest. js. You can find various examples of this solution in the Internet. However, to put a systems in place that is worthy of large scale production, it is a journey surprisingly tedious if not difficult.

### The Benefits:
- Modular separation of of ducument composition using various hbs files is critical for complext document implementation.
- Templating and data separation provides a clean Model-View mechanism.
- Perhaps the most important feature is we can implement complex business logic to accomodate or transform input data whenever needed through the Handlebars' custom helper functions. <u>Instead of taking weeks to accomodate changes, now it takes minutes!!!</u>

### Tech Stack :
- Node
- Nest.js
- Handlebar
- i18n
- Puppeteer

---
## Requirements:

The PDF generator has the following requirements:
1. Stateless, meaning it will only take in input as HTTP Post Body in json form. Then output a rendered PDF.
2. Multi-Lingual, needs to support multiple language simultaneously.
3. Multi-Timezones, needs to support whichever browser's timezone requesting the PDF and display all time to local time.
4. Multi-Currencies, needs to display in different currencies simultaneously.
5. Performant, needs to render a complex PDF within 2 seconds.
6. Scalable, needs to be able to spawn hundred or thousands of PDF generator to service heavy traffic demand.

---
## Results:
I architected and implement a solution that met all requirements. It was such a success it was deployed throughout  a larger international brand company in North America and Europe in less than 10 months.

---
## Disclaimer:

The solution I implemented worked remarkably well for my previous company. But it is a bandage of many hours of Googling various bits and pieces of information. 

I thought I need to completely rethink and restructure how a more elegant solution can be. After I left the company, I re-implemented a brand new system from scratch in clean room fashion. I took the conceptual learnings and implemented an even more superior system. Throughout this blog, I will show fragments of new clean code without any prior copyright violation.

The code I created is NOT open source, but I want to share my experience from a higher level perspective.